# different-HTs
human translations created by different translators/cohorts

This repository contains three available parallel data sets involving three different language pairs and five translation directions: English-to-Croatian (EnHr), German-French (DeFr) and English-Finnish (EnFi). All data sets belong to the news domain and originate from the publicly available WMT shared tasks.

* EnHr data set 

The EnHr data set was developed in the framework of the AbuMatran project.
It contains about translations generated by three cohorts: professional translators, students and crowdsource workers. 
1011 English sentences from the Czech-English WMT 2012 task were translated into Croatian by professional translation and crowdsourcing via the CrowdFlower platform. In this way, three different HTs were created: one by professional translator and two by two groups of crowd contributors.  In a later phase of the project, 1000 English sentences from the Czech-English WMT 2013 were translated by a student, thus representing a third translator cohort, although as a comparable text.
All translators were native speakers of the target language.
The data set is appropriate for investigating HTs of different cohorts.


* DeFr data set

The DeFr data set was created for the WMT 2019 shared task. 
A subset of 1327 sentences was originally written in German and translated by translators with three different levels of expertise: student (326 sentences), professional translator (756 sentences), and specialist (not a professional translator by vocation, but experienced) (245 sentences).
This part of the data set is appropriate for investigating HTs of different cohorts (expertise). 

A French native specialist was translating in both directions: from French into German (from their native language) and from German into French (into their native language).
The same French native specialist and a German native specialist both were translating from French into German.
This part of the data set is appropriate for investigating translation into native and into non-native target language. 


* EnFi data set

The EnFi data set was created in the framework of the WMT 2017, 2018 and 2019 shared task. 
It contains three HTs produced by a Finnish native professional: one English into Finnish (into their native language) translation and two Finnish to English (from their native language) translations.
The data set is appropriate for investigating translation into native and into non-native target language.




If you use any part of this corpus, please cite the following paper:

Maja Popović. "On the differences between human translations". In Proceedings of the 22nd Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation (EAMT 2020)
